---
:title: On the road
:created_at: 2011-08-24 14:25:41.000000000 +01:00
:kind: article
:tags:
- General
:author: olly
:slug: on-the-road
---
<% excerpt do %>
Hello and welcome to the all-new FreeAgent engineering team blog!

A lot of work goes on [behind the
curtain](http://www.freeagentcentral.com/central/behind-the-curtain) at
FreeAgent and we’ve kept rather quiet about this ever since we launched
the first iteration of our app ([18<sup>th</sup> September
2007](http://www.freeagentcentral.com/central/announce-launch), if you
were wondering). This isn’t because we’re unwilling to reveal our secret
special sauce (still classified, sorry), more because there has always
been such an ever-growing mountain of work we really wanted to do,
anything else has taken a backseat.
<% end %>

Now we’re ready to make amends. Not because we’ve run out of things to
do (on the contrary, we now have multiple backlogs of work planned
across a much wider and more ambitious scope than ever), but because
we’ve learned so much over the past four years we feel the need to share
our stories from the development trenches with you, both highs and lows.
I also want to give our super-talented engineers their own platform to
talk about the technologies we’re using to develop and host FreeAgent
and the challenges that come when developing at speed and scale.

Some of the upcoming topics we’ll be writing about are our
second-generation API (featuring tasty technologies such as [OAuth
2.0](http://oauth.net/2/), [JSON](http://www.json.org/) and
[AMQP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol)),
migrating our server configuration management to
[Puppet](http://www.puppetlabs.com/puppet/introduction/), the evolution
of our infrastructure, monitoring and statistics, and tales of love and
war with Ruby and Javascript. And we might even get nostalgic and
sentimental about Java, if you play your cards right.

I hope you’ll find the blog both interesting and insightful, so please
do let us know what you think and don’t forget to tell your friends. And
if you’re excited at the idea of being part of our team and helping us
solve some of the challenges we face, then [drop us a
line](mailto:jobs@freeagentcentral.com) because [we’re
hiring](http://www.freeagentcentral.com/company/jobs) and I’d love to
hear from you!

– Olly, FreeAgent CTO
